More about the tech stack.
Like I said, reason nextjs 10.
We're using node js 10 plus.
So if you don't have 10 plus,
just if you're not using nvm or
into manage your node versions,
I highly recommend doing that and
making sure you're on at least 10.
I think this might work on eight.
But 10 plus,
I think is where you wanna go.
I'm pretty sure I'm on 12, so yeah,
we also are going to use the MongoDB.
Hold up.
Don't worry, if you don't have
MongoDB on your computer,
you don't have to install it.
I'm gonna show you how to
use a hosted solution.
But if you do have it on your computer,
it might save you some time.
But when we get to deployment,
you'll have to use a hosted one anyway.
So there's no avoiding it unless
you just don't wanna walk through
the deploying part.
Which I get that, who wants to set up
environment variables where I get it?
But yeah, that's basically
what we're gonna be doing.
And that's pretty much it.
I mentioned in here, like I said,
we're not gonna be doing the UI stuff.
If you wanna intro to react and
how to do all that stuff,
Brian who's a really
great instructor here.
A friend of masters and
works at Microsoft has a course on intro
to react that covers a lot of that stuff.
We will not be covering JSX and
react in this course.
We're just gonna breeze through that.
We're gonna focus on next JS and
production.
So if you're here to learn react,
you should go look at this one.
But hey, stay sharp.
Try to follow along.
If you can't, you might learn some stuff.
Okay, cool.
Let's move on to our real first lesson.
And then from there we'll
have a little break and
kind of soak on what we just learned.
So the first thing I wanna do is kinda
talk about something that I'm really
passionate about and slightly biased.
Because I'm the CEO of a company
that basically solves this problem.
I wanna talk about dynamic content.
Okay, so I wanna talk about how content is
data and I felt it was really important
to make a separate page just about this
because next as and pretty much every
server side render framework,
it's kind of built on this concept.
And if you don't really buy
into this concept, it's,
I think you're missing half the value
of what these frameworks offer you.
So just buying into this concept
really just changes how you think.
And it changes what you think is possible.
And apps that you're making,
like things that you didn't think were
possible are not going to be possible.
Okay, so I want you to think
about how content is data.
So what I'm basically talking about is,
imagine you made a react app.
And I don't know you had at
the time you made the React app.
You guys already had a million users
in a database because you already had
a view app that was serving them
you're switching over to react.
There's there's no way you're not gonna
make a react out that hard codes.
All your millions of users data an app?
I mean, how is that even possible?
Like you can't even do it,
you have to pull it down from API.
It's dynamic.
That's the whole point of an app.
Well, your content should
be thought of the same way.
Right, your content is data.
It just the users that that data belongs
to is actually the users on your team.
Maybe even yourself, but it is data.
It should also be dynamic.
It should never be hard coded.
And I think that's something
that we just overlook.
Because as engineers working on
front end frameworks and JavaScript,
we just haven't had the tools to
actually think about it that way.
We just been forced to hard code strings.
Inside of JSX, I think if you
had to do 18 in or localization,
then maybe you were forced to, like take
it out to like do those translations, but
other than that you almost never took
out like hard coded content in your JSX.
That was it.
That was like as far as you went,
maybe you build your own CMS.
I don't know but you really got to
think about content being dynamic.
The more you can make dynamic in your app.
The especially on the team,
the more the more productive
that everyone's going to be,
the more they're gonna like you.
And the less work that you don't wanna do.
You won't be on the hook for work.
You don't wanna do basically you're right,
you're not going to get a call to come fix
this typo, this punctuation error or move
this here that because you made a dynamic,
so you're really,
just helping a lot of people out.
Making things dynamic isn't gonna replace
your job, pulling a user's profile down
from the database does it replace your job
so you shouldn't make everything dynamic.
So in order to do that there's these
things out there called headless CMS says
we won't be using a headless CMS in
today's course because there's just so
many of those CMSs.
And obviously with me being
a CEO of one of the CMSs.
I just felt like it was just
too biased to put one in there.
Especially if it's mine.
So we won't be actually using one but
I wanted to make sure I modeled the course
in a way that it doesn't really matter if
we're using one or not because the way
that I'm gonna show you how to interact
with the CMS is gonna work for
any CMS that you use doesn't
matter which one it is.
They're all gonna work the same.
So we're gonna be good, but
basically a headless CMS is a CMS that
doesn't really care about
what app you're on.
It doesn't know what app you have.
It just gives you content
either via an API or Git.
That's it and then it has like
a GUI associated with it for
the non technical people.
And that's where they
get to go edit stuff.
You can think of it as like a form, they
get a form or they get to edit content,
they hit a button.
And then you can pull that
content down in your app.
That's it.
It's just data.
It's really just data.
And that's what a headless CMS is.
So we're gonna be working with our own
CMS that we built into our app basically.
And one bold prediction I want to say
here is I think by the end of 2021.
If you, if, when starting an app,
you don't include a CMS.
I think it's going to,
could be considered a bad practice,
because if technology
is like next day yes.
And all these other frameworks start going
further than they are now and making all
these features that make it like obvious
to use a CMS, it's gonna be that.
So, I highly recommend just
getting into that mindset.
Have CMS and frameworks like next.js and
stuff like that.
Any questions?
Nope, okay, all right.
And we'll move on to this one and
after this, we'll take a break.
Okay, so I wanna talk about
static routes and content.
So this is a mouthful, but
we're gonna start [COUGH] And
this first lesson we're going to work on.
[COUGH] Excuse me.
Okay.
We're gonna talk about dynamic content on
a static route for a static page right.
So, three different things.
So just picture that our
content is gonna be dynamic.
The route is static, and
the page is also static.
So that's what we're gonna work on.
So if we go look at our app, we will
only have like one of those pages and
that's kind of gonna be the the sign
up page or I'm sorry, the index page.
We're gonna work on the index page.
Right now this page if we look at it.
It really, I mean, they did a good attempt
of trying to not heart code their content.
They didn't hard code other than her JSX,
they actually passing it down as a prop.
But the prop comes from default props.
So, half step is still hard coded.
It's just not in your JSX.
We don't want this.
We want this content to come from our CMS.
So anyone on our team can edit this.
So that's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna make this content dynamic.
Even though this page is static,
even though this route is static, as in,
there's no parameters in this route, and
dynamic static page as in, it's going
to be rendered statically by next day.
Yes.
And we're not actually doing.
Anything dynamic in here,
there's no hooks to make API calls or
there's no client side, any of that stuff.
It's completely static.
You can serve this from a CDN.
But we still want the content
to be dynamic, right.
And that's where the beauty
of next JS comes in.
So let's start with that.
So we head back over to our
notes here is basically gonna
start with get static props, right.
So if you haven't heard of get static
props, I just talked about it on the,
refresher.
Basically what we're gonna do is
we're just gonna come down here and
we're gonna export a function
called get static props.
Like this good stuff prompts,
if I can type, there we go.
Get rid of that R, cool.
And then what we're gonna do is we're
going to return some data from our CMS.
Like I said, I created like
a little small mini CMS here.
Let's go look at it.
[LAUGH] It's actually very complicated.
It was the hardest part of the entire app
to make this file that spits out JSON.
That's our CMS.
So that's it.
It's just a file that has JSON in it.
And we're gonna use this as our CMS.
And again,
this works exactly like any CMS.
At the end of the day,
you're getting back some JSON.
It doesn't really matter
where it comes from.
And you'll see why
/next.js doesn't care or
actually doesn't even
know where it comes from.
So we'll be using this as our CMS.
So I'm going to import
that at the top here.
So we can import from wanna
say content like that, and
then I wanna get the home
part from content like that.
And then down here,
I wanna return some props.
For and I wanna call it,
what are the props that it's looking for,
it's looking for a prop called content,
so that's what I'm gonna call it and
we'll return content down here and
I'm gonna set that to home.published.
We're gonna do published values from
our CMS for now, we're gonna talk
about drafts later and how you can
look at drafts and things like that.
But for now,
we're just gonna return published.
So I'm gonna save that.
And then now if I go back, I shouldn't see
that really bad tagline and body anymore.
I should see some real
content on our site.
So let's go do that.
Let's refresh this thing.
And then there you go.
We got some nice content on our site.
I mean, obviously, this was pretty
trivial was pulling from a JSON file.
What I want you to understand is,
there's really no difference.
Imagine if this was an async function,
okay?
Imagine this is async and this was a call
to like cms.get like my homepage right.
This works exactly the same.
It's still gonna work exactly the same.
It doesn't matter what CMS you come from,
this still works exactly the same, right.
So like next.js doesn't care where it
comes from inside of git static props.
So that's why I didn't want us to actually
go through and sign up and use the CMS.
We're just gonna use JSON,
it works the same.